docs/druid.rst, before:

Druid
=====

Superset has a native connector to Druid and a majority of Druid's
features are accessible through Superset.

.. note ::
    Druid now supports SQL and can be accessed through Superset's
    SQLAlchemy connector. The long-term vision is to deprecate
    the Druid native REST connector and query Druid exclusively through
    the SQL interface.

Aggregations
------------

Common aggregations or Druid metrics can be defined and used in Superset.
The first and simpler use case is to use the checkbox matrix expose in your
datasource's edit view (``Sources -> Druid Datasources ->
[your datasource] -> Edit -> [tab] List Druid Column``).
Clicking the ``GroupBy`` and ``Filterable`` checkboxes will make the column
appear in the related dropdowns while in explore view. Checking
``Count Distinct``, ``Min``, ``Max`` or ``Sum`` will result in creating
new metrics that will appear in the ``List Druid Metric`` tab upon saving the
datasource. By editing these metrics, you'll notice that their ``json``
element corresponds to Druid aggregation definition. You can create your own
aggregations manually from the ``List Druid Metric`` tab following Druid
documentation.

.. image:: images/druid_agg.png
   :scale: 50 %

Post-Aggregations
-----------------

Druid supports post aggregation and this works in Superset. All you have to
do is create a metric, much like you would create an aggregation manually,
but specify ``postagg`` as a ``Metric Type``. You then have to provide a valid
json post-aggregation definition (as specified in the Druid docs) in the
Json field.


Unsupported Features
--------------------

.. note ::
    Unclear at this point, this section of the documentation could use
    some input.

Commit message:

Add licenses to translations (#6732)
* Add licenses

* More licenses

* Ignore messages.json as they are generated

* More licenses

* Also typescript

* Fix alignment

* Add to svg

* Many more licenses

* more licenses

* Better excludes

* Add licenses to docs and md files

* Pre-finalize licenses

* Fix newlines

* Finalize all sourde licenses

* Fix lint

docs/druid.rst, after:

..  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

..  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Druid
=====

Superset has a native connector to Druid and a majority of Druid's
features are accessible through Superset.

.. note ::
    Druid now supports SQL and can be accessed through Superset's
    SQLAlchemy connector. The long-term vision is to deprecate
    the Druid native REST connector and query Druid exclusively through
    the SQL interface.

Aggregations
------------

Common aggregations or Druid metrics can be defined and used in Superset.
The first and simpler use case is to use the checkbox matrix expose in your
datasource's edit view (``Sources -> Druid Datasources ->
[your datasource] -> Edit -> [tab] List Druid Column``).
Clicking the ``GroupBy`` and ``Filterable`` checkboxes will make the column
appear in the related dropdowns while in explore view. Checking
``Count Distinct``, ``Min``, ``Max`` or ``Sum`` will result in creating
new metrics that will appear in the ``List Druid Metric`` tab upon saving the
datasource. By editing these metrics, you'll notice that their ``json``
element corresponds to Druid aggregation definition. You can create your own
aggregations manually from the ``List Druid Metric`` tab following Druid
documentation.

.. image:: images/druid_agg.png
   :scale: 50 %

Post-Aggregations
-----------------

Druid supports post aggregation and this works in Superset. All you have to
do is create a metric, much like you would create an aggregation manually,
but specify ``postagg`` as a ``Metric Type``. You then have to provide a valid
json post-aggregation definition (as specified in the Druid docs) in the
Json field.


Unsupported Features
--------------------

.. note ::
    Unclear at this point, this section of the documentation could use
    some input.
